
Group Details: Surakshitha M 1ks17cs088
                        Varshitha S       1ks17cs095
                        Sindhu M         1ks17cs079

A10. Implement Distance Vector Routing protocol where multiple routers are connected and forward packet and
 build their forwarding table.
The routing update message corresponds to distance vector information consisting
 of following information
  
- Array of (Rid: cost) for each known router in the network


A receiving router upon receipt of this message, will perform Routing table computation using Bellman Ford algorithm
 and print the routing table entries. The routing table entries will look as follows
 

 <Destination router; Next hop; cost to destination router>

Description:
                  Here we  have implemented distance vector routing protocol in networks.It measures the distance by the number of routers and 
                 packet has to pass one router counts has one hop. distance vector routing protocols use the Bellman-Ford algorithm
                to calculate the best route. Each router will be contain the process listening on a UDP sockets. the listen port number
               would be 50000+100*N+dd, where  N is the router number, 
                                                                      dd corresponds to last 2 digits of lowest USN number of the team
               router <id> <Rid-1:cost-1> <T> <Rid-2:cost-2>,where  
                                                                      id - router number. It will be limited between 1 to 9
                                                                     T - time interval at which it will send periodic routing updates to other connected routers
                                                                    Rid:cost: id of router number and its link cost
               We have implemented distance vector routing protocol using java programming language. We have created two java files: 1) Admin.Java and 2) MainRouter.Java. We are using singe machine for implementing this project.
Admin will access the given directory path to find the number of routers present and it will assign port numbers corresponding to each router/file. For each router present, MainRouter java class is called and it calculates distance to other routers and it detects link cost changes and recalculate the cost

TO EXCUTE:
1) Admin will accept input from user (Directory Path).
2) It checks whether the Directory path is valid or not
3) Calculate how many files are present in the directory (Each file corresponds to router.)
4) Asking the user to assign port number for each file present in the directory.
5) Now the control is passed to MainRouter class. Separate command prompt window is opened for each router.
6) Initialize the local variables like hop List, neighbor List, Socket and File.
7) Now we are creating two threads for each router.
8) One thread is used for reading the distance vector information from the network and update the global network distance matrix of each router.
9) Another thread is opened to calculate the shortest path based on the distance vector algorithm and write the updated information to neighbors.
10) After each writing is completed, it waits for 6 seconds to receive distance vector information from its neighbors.
11) Then it performs computations and again it waits for 12 seconds and repeat the same process from step 8.
12) save all the .dat files in folder for excuting the program

*run all the files
*Run Admin.java file and give the corresponding directory path as argument
        java Admin C:\Users\febin\Desktop\Project3\Data_

 
            
problems faced:
packages werent installed

                        
                